# SwordPhysicsSystem

Developed with Unreal Engine 4

Computer-based video games offer the user an experience of many different scenarios one would usually not be able to experience in everyday life. There are many different types of computer-based video games and they primarily operate based on the interaction between the user to user interface and input devices. They have been become increasingly popular over the years and their popularity surged recently as a result of lockdowns during the recent global pandemic. This project will focus on creating an omnidirectional sword game system for the user to experience sword fighting, where unlike conventional sword fighting games, will give the user full control over a sword in a virtual environment with only a computer mouse and keyboard input devices. The purpose of the full control is to emulate a Virtual Reality set up, as VR games provide arguably the best platform for experiencing different scenarios. The VR input devices consist of handheld controllers and a head-mounted screen which immerses the user in a full field of view visual. The hand held controllers give the user complete control over their arms and hands in game, which allows for a unrivalled interactive game play, especially for sword combat games.

However, unfortunately VR set ups are usually very expensive and require significant living space in order to set up, which leads to many users not being able to experience this type of game play. Without a VR set up and the included costs and using only mouse and keyboard input devices, the user will be able to attack or defend at any possible angle and this would lead to a similar realistic and interactive sword fighting experience as the user is much freer to choose where they attack and defend than conventional non-VR sword fighting systems.

The project will entail the design and implementation of the sword system and will be programmed in C++, using the framework of the 3D creation tool, Unreal Engine 4 (UE4). UE4 is a powerful tool for 3D visualisation which can be used for game design and supports the use of C++ programming and scripting to control the engine to display any system created.
